The Mawframe
Game Log
Launch VTT
https://www.dndbeyond.com/campaigns/join/5921659724078690
Send players this invite link to have them join your campaign.
Copy Link
Content Sharing has been enabled by ffeoG_The_Damned Content Management
 

For 1-6 players lvl 1-6

Overview

After defeating the Fallen Priest and sealing the vault of Shavras, players arrive in the city of Astgrove. A large sub-alpine town of roughly 3,000 villagers. The town is large with a plethora of shops, and buildings. The town center is bustling. The party has a run-in with a band of Rangers from the The Knock, a faction of the much larger Emerald Enclave. After some tense introductions, Harlix Darkleaf introduces himself and explains what has brought The Knock to Astgrove. It seems there is a disturbance in the North Woods. After some recon that night, the group discovers that a large wooden structure is being erected by a group of enslaved humans. There seems to be something unnatural about the area of the structure. 

 

 

 

 

ffeoG_The_Damned's avatar
ffeoG_The_Damned
Dungeon Master
Active Characters
These characters are members of your campaign.
Accoa Krigsdottir
Lvl 6 | Aasimar | Paladin / Oath of the Ancients
Player: PNW2022
View User Profile
View
Kei Eaglesnout
Lvl 6 | Human | Fighter / Champion
Player: cwashb42
View User Profile
View
Malum Munus Exemplar
Lvl 6 | Half-Elf | Rogue / Assassin
Player: mzseal1117438a82226b
View User Profile
View
rudiger
Lvl 6 | Human | Wizard / Evoker
Player: bryan_e42
View
Edit
Unassign
Leave
Skid Demon
Lvl 6 | Half-Elf | Ranger / Gloom Stalker
Player: kippenwolf
View User Profile
View
Stol
Lvl 6 | Human | Cleric / Life Domain
Player: Otakuma
View User Profile
View
Create Unassigned Character Create Unassigned Premade Character
DM Notes
 

The Fallen Priest & The Golden Bell of Shavras 

Overview

Players arrive in the frontier town of Phandalin along the Sword Coast. Phandalin has been built on the ruins of a once a bustling human town known for their alliances with neighboring dwarves and gnomes. Long ago, an Orc horde laid waste to what is now Phandalin and it was abandoned for centuries. Over the years, settlers from Neverwinter and Waterdeep have begun to rebuild among the ruins of Phandalin and it is now a medium-sized town full of artisans, bakers, woodworkers, fur traders and prospectors drawn to the town by the stories of gold and platinum in the foothills of the Sword Mountains.  

Adventurers have been summoned to Phandalin by the Townmaster in regards to a horde of bandits robbing the towns supply chain and kidnapping and murdering a couple villagers. 

Session Summary...#1

Player characters: 

Miles: Stol - Human Cleric

Bryan: Rudiger - Human Rogue

Kip: Skid Demon - Half-Elf Ranger

Chris: Kei Eaglesnout - Human Fighter

Mike: Malum Munus Examplar

Drew: Cribben Hayduke - Elf Druid

Non- Player Character: Dain Hemnulim - Dwarf Warrior

 

Met with Townmaster Riglid Hoxley in Phandalin regarding supply lines being raided and 3 people being kidnapped. One was killed. You heard gossip that the two still missing tonspeople, Aidin (F) and Greeve (M) were having an affair. They are still missing. Objective: Investigate the raids, kidnappings and murder, restore the supply chain to Phandalin. Riglid gave each party member 4 days of rations and 20gp, he will pay them another 80gp after the investigation. 
 

While meeting with Riglid in Phandalin, Dain Hemnulim, a dwarf warrior interrupted the meeting, informing the group that goblins and Orcs have overrun the Triboar Trail and surrounding area. He was separated from his travel party and is requesting an escort to Dalvenholm. He pledges his services in return for safe travel. Dain suggests to travel through Umbrage Hill. Objective : Escort Dain Hemnulim to Dalvenholm. 
 

After setting out, the party encountered a cart on fire and were approached by 3 drunken goblins attempting to extort them for jugs of ale. The group killed one of the goblins and took captive of the other two. After being bound, Dain decapitated both goblins with one swing of his great axe. Before their demise, one of the goblins explained that there was more to just supply raids and that their master was looking for someone. The goblin gave a trinket. A small gold colored bell on a chain. The small trinket bears the ancient word "Shavras" in worn, raised lettering.
 

The party arrives at the Fallenore Hot Springs, an ancient, tiered waterfall hot spring on the side of a cliff that cascades down the cliff with many pools. The group was robbed by two nude women who were intimidated almost immediately and dropped the stolen items. One of the thieves explained that they have no money and that they are enslaved by an Orc horde traveling through the area. She mentions the town of Ulfandor and a "hidden door".  Stol offered them charity to leave the area which they obliged. Objective: Explore Ulfandor for the whereabouts of the Orc horde. 
 

The group traveled not far to the town of Gullborey, a small rest area town with an Inn, tavern and arcane shop. Gullborey is a small, sleepy town with not much lively. The group purchased potions at the arcane shop. 
END OF SESSION 1

 

Session 2:

The group awoke in the small town of Gullborrey. The Innkeeper offered breakfast to the group and the host was surprised to see Dain (disdain? contempt?) 

As the group departs the Gulborrey Inn - While discussing their next move, a bard begins to play a somber tune on the steps of the Inn. His lyrics mention "hidden whispers of the underking" and a "lost door of the Shrouded One."

The group departs and arrives at Umbrage Hill. Dain explains... Umbrage Hill got it's name from two feuding dwarf clans. The cause of their umbrage is a tale lost to time and only the cairns of the dead remain now. 

 As the party approaches, they see a large stone windmill. There is a large winged creature attempting to break through a large wood door at the bottom of the windmill. The group hears a woman crying for help and sees her shouting from the second story window of the windmill. 

Offered the manticore gold to find somewhere else to hole up. The group met Adabra Gwynn. An apothecary that lives in the windmill and making potions of healing. She offers the group a potion of healing for their help, 

Adabra Gwynn also gives a member of the group a letter for Riglid, the Townmaster of Phandalin. 

Departing Umbrage Hill for Ulfandor... After leaving Adabra Gwynn, the group makes way for Ulfandor and while setting up camp, Rudiger sets off a trap that showered pebbles down from the trees above. The group hears screeching and soon see the flames of torches coming towards them in the darkness. Goblins! The group made pretty easy work of the goblins.

In the skirmish with the goblins, Dain was wounded and the party notices that he dresses his wound with a handkerchief bearing the same symbology as the bell of Shavras trinket. Dain explained that he lifted off one of the thief women from the Fallenore Hot Springs. 

Arrival at Ulfandor...

The party arrives at Ulfandor, a crumbling mining town surrounded by jagged cliffs and dense forest. Ulfandor is a medium sized town. It is fast paced and bustling with villagers, merchants and travelers. The air is thick with the smell of cooked food and incense. There are many different races seen. Orcs, Dragonborn, Human, Dwarf, Tiefling, etc. 

The group heads to the Stout Arrow, the local tavern. They talk to the barkeep who explains that many of the businesses in Ulfandor are being extorted by a local Orc horde that makes camp to the East of town near the abandoned mines. The Orcs apparently collect their extortion at night. 

The group decided to stealthily follow the Orcs through town and to the outskirts of town.

They then confronted the Orcs and slayed them. After a brief battle, the party finds the entrance to the abandoned mines of Ulfandor. Pressing on into the mines, they can see there is all sorts of symbols on the walls of the mine. At the end of the corridor there is a circular room with a stone door with an etched symbol on it.

Dain lingers near the door, running his fingers over the carvings with an expression that’s hard to read—reverence? Dread? He mutters something under his breath in a language the party doesn’t recognize

A group of Orcs and goblins suddenly bursts into the cavern, led by a hulking Orc chieftain and a robed figure. The leader addresses Dain directly:

“You’ve done well bringing them here, dwarf. Your debt is repaid—but your treachery ends now.”

The Robed figure is hovering behind the Orcs and goblins, his skin is very pale, almost white and his face and eyes are sunken. He wears a mitre and his long robes are tattered, dirty and bloody. His outstretched hands as he hovers in mid air. 

"Kill them all, secure the bloodline and bring me the girl!"  

Dain insists that they held his family captive and forced him to conspire, to help plan the raids to sow discord and fear in an attempt to find...just as he is about to say a name,  the Robed Priest raises two fingers and Dain's tongue is ripped from his mouth and falls to the floor in a bloody mess. The Robed One then vanishes into thin air. 

Dain is weary but he fights alongside the party. 

The group takes some damage but defeat the Orcs and goblins.

if the bell is near the symbol on the door, it pulses and hums, the rune carved into the stone glows red when it is near. If held against the door, the stone wall pivots revealing a room. Inside the room is a captive man. Amid a room full of more symbols and candles which appear to be dripping blood. There is a bowl full of eyeballs that are smoldering. 

The captive man reveals himself to be Greeve, he is weak, dirty and keeps repeating that he is not "the one" and that he needs to "find Aidin before they find her" He explains that Aidin is the last of the bloodline of the ancient temple of Shavras and that her sacrifice will open the gateway.

 Session 3

 The group is still in the mine at Ulfandor after their battle with the Orcs and goblins in the chamber. They are there with Greeve who mentioned that they have taken Aidin as an offering to "open the gate". Greeve is in poor health but persistent to accompany the group to find Aidin. 

Dain who had his tongue ripped out by the Fallen Priest is in rough shape and in shock, he puts his finger in his bloody mouth and writes the word "Home" in blood on the wall of the mine. Greeve suggests Dain stay behind and be treated in Ulfandor. Dain agrees. Mal gives Dain the letter from Adabra Gwynn to give to Riglid in Phandalin.

 Greeve explains that him an Aidin were not having an affair, that they were shunned for their lack of faith having denounced their religion and leaving the church. They were captivated by a man who traveled through Phandalin previously and shared his knowledge of an ancient religion. He says that him an Aidin would occasionally sneak out of the town together to practice rituals.

 Greeve explains that the man told Aidin that her surname “Trynn” sounded familiar and that she might be a descendant of the founders of the ancient temple of Shavras.

“There was a time in the forest that I will not forget, Aidin and I were performing a ritual welcoming the Summer solstice when all of the foliage around us started to wilt and decay as Aidin drew blood for the offering.” “Suddenly, a bright Summer day turned cold and we both fell asleep.” We awoke in chains on a cart being pulled by Orcs. We traveled with the Orc horde for 4 days and on the 5th,  the Orcs were ambushed by a dwarf clan. Our cart caught fire and Aidin escaped. She tried to free me but there was not enough time before 3 of the Orcs grabbed me and fled into the woods during the skirmish. They brought me here what I believe was 8 days ago and I have been here since, wasting away. I do not know if she was recaptured or not.”

“I do know that the only way to Shavras is through Whisperwood forest. A haunting forest of despair and witchcraft. We must set aside fear and make our way through Whisperwood. It’s our only chance to find Aidin before it’s too late.”

Whisperwood Forest

The group stands at the edge of Whisperwood, locally it has a dark reputation. It is said to be cursed by the echoes of past atrocities committed during Shavras’s reign. The forest is alive with eerie sounds, shifting shadows, and unnatural phenomena. It is fabled that cultists of Shavras still practice dark rituals in Whisperwood Forest.

The air feels colder the deeper the party goes.

Ghostly whispers echo around them, sometimes taking the form of familiar voices.

The trees seem to move when unobserved, creating an oppressive and claustrophobic environment.

 The group comes to what appears to be a trailhead. There is a robed man, old and withered with a lantern hanging from a long walking stick. He tells the group to “beware the shifting paths of illusion, this way to the grove of lost souls.”

The path twists and turns, it seems to be getting more and more dark the deeper the party goes into the forest, there are whispers from the tops of the trees, a layer of ground level fog swirls with every footstep. Soon the party reaches a clearing, stone ruins are scattered about, some appear to be gravestones.

As the party steps foot toward the cemetery, 6 skeletal warriors rise from the ground, old leather armor tattered, some with armored helmets still on, they all wield longswords and approach the party.

Stol uses Turn Undead which repels three of the skeletal warriors. The party makes quick work of defeating the skeletal warriors but notice in when they defeat one, they burst into bone fragments and cause damage to party close by. 

 

After defeating the skeletal warriors, the group sees the path ahead, there is an old wrought iron gate with a pathway among the trees. In the distance, the group can see a large stone structure with torches on either side of a large iron door. The moon is blood red and casting an eerie glow on stone of the structure.

CRIBBEN TURNED INTO A ****IN RAT and did nothing. BUT THEN he used his Thorn Whip to incapacitate enemies and allow the the party to get the upperhand. 

Inside the structure are thousands of bones and skulls. Some still wrapped in linen placed on large marble slabs. It appears to be an ossuary.  Near many of the bodies are small trinkets likely left by bereaved families.

All of a sudden there is movement as one of the bodies wrapped in linen slowly sits up, soon 6 other bodies slowly rise , decayed and mummified flesh hang from their emaciated frame. The zombies all slowly shuffle towards the party.

Stol's proficiency as a Cleric proves worthy again as he uses Turn Undead to repel some of the Undead who shuffle their way out of the ossuary while the rest of the group defeats the remaining zombies.

 After defeating the zombies, a loud crash of thunder and a flash of lightning rings throughout the ossuary, a torrential rain showers down. An evil laugh is heard from within the ossuary and all of the candles suddenly light.

Behind the ossuary, the trail picks back up. The rain is almost deafening as the intensity of the whispers of the forest increases as well.

The trail comes to and end at what appears to be a small lake. Shrouded in fog, the red of the blood moon glinting off the phantom water. A break in the fog as a wooden raft with a lone figure in a long hooded robe, uses a long pole to steer the raft to the shore in front of the group.

He says nothing. He only motions them onto the raft.

 The group steps onto the raft and the boatman silently steers them across the body of water. Floating orbs of light can be seen through the fog as the boat silently slips through the shroud of fog and water. The raft comes to a halt on an unseen shore. The fog is so thick at the opposite shore that the line of sight is only 10ft.

As the party debarks the raft, they all feel weary from not having rested and must find camp for a short rest.

After making camp, the sounds of the forest are still intense as the whispers from the treetops, cackling birds and the hard rainfall create a cacophony of madness.

While making camp, Mal found a torn piece of fabric; it appears to be from a dress. Greeve holds the fabric and is struck with a vision of Aidin. She is in danger and appears to be running while a group chases her.

While Greeve is describing what he sees in his vision, the air becomes chilling, the party notices rustling from the foliage near them. The whispers in the trees amplify and Greeve recognizes it as Aidin’s voice, saying  “My dear Aidin, I am beyond the veil, beyond hope now, do not come for me.” The voice repeats itself over and over slowly getting louder and louder.

The group now sees something emerging from the shrubs,

2 large spiders scurry in front of them

 

Two Giant spiders prove no match for the party (or could it have been the DM rolling 1's?) 

After the spiders are defeated, the group sees a woman laying on the ground, her dress is tattered and she is dirty and wet from rain, She appears unconscious. Greeve runs to the woman while shouting “Aidin!” he kneels next to her body and places his hand on her shoulder, the woman awakes, “Aidin!” you’re alive!” Aidin appears groggy as she slowly awakes, she smiles at the sight of Greeve. Her smile slowly fades as her face contorts revealing the face and frail body of an elderly woman in tattered robes, her wispy gray hair and pale, twisted face now cackling, she points a long crooked finger at Greeve, now stunned. Greeve begins to levitate. Greeve now writhing in pain slowly rises above the group. The old hag now chanting, stops her chant and looks at the group and utters…

 

"Through roots that twist and shadows dance,

You will find no second chance.

Each step you take, the forest claim,

Your blood, your soul, your very name.

The whispers hear, the darkness knows,

Your path will end where black wind blows.

Turn back now, or face the cost,

All you love shall soon be lost."

 A bolt of lightning strikes right in front of the group and the hag vanishes, Greeve drops from the sky and crumples to the ground. Each party member experiences a splitting headache as a vision of the dark priest invades their minds.

The group is cursed by the Night Hag which affects their wisdom stat.  

END.

Session 4

The group finds themselves still in the middle of a clearing in Whisperwood forest after battling the Giant spiders and being cursed by the Witch.

**The witch’s curse affected Cribben differenty and he unwillingly transmutated into a toad and hopped off into the forest**

 

Greeve is in a pile on the ground after falling 20+ feet as the witch levitated him off the ground. He is alive but very weak.

 

Whisperwood is still very dark, the night sky a mix of black, purple, and indigo with a red tinted moon. There is a small path that continues through the forest. To the North, in the far distance, the group can see a horizon.

 

As they walk on the path, off to one side of the path about 60 feet from the path the group sees an old wooden structure that juts up just above the tree line.

An abandoned watch tower.

Inside the watchtower the group meets Accoa who is taking refuge in the watchtower during the storm.

Accoa tells the group that she was sent to scout a band of Goblins traveling North near the Kryptgarden Forest when she lost her way and ended up lost on this forest. Lost and weary, she took refuge in the abandoned watchtower.

 

***At the top of the watchtower, they can see the edge of Whisperwood Forest, aa the dark, twisted forest turns to sweeping plains of light tufted grasslands awash in midday sunshine. **

As the group is at the top of the tower, they hear loud chanting, and see a streak of flame approaching. 

At the base of the watchtower 9 cultists appear, 

 The cultists light the bottom of the watchtower on fire. The cultists are armed with sickles and torches.

 

Dryad Encounter - While in the thick of battle, a large tree falls on 4 of the cultists killing them instantly. The group looks on and sees, the tree appears to be moving! The group sees a humanoid shape appear in the tree and, and the shape of a woman appears in the tree.

 

After the battle calms, the female figure from the trees appears before them and begins communicating with Accoa (has Speak with Animals spell) through the Dryad who says…

 

“I am Erinthin,  a Dryad of the Moonwoods. This evil has soured these woods for far too long. A curse as long as I can recall befell these woods. This was a place of great beauty long ago and now my people are few. I watched as the Witch cursed your party and I will attempt to break her wretched spell.”

 

The Dryad breaks the Witch’s spell and WIS is restored.

 

“My kin tell me you are after the Priest? He travels in shadow, between this world and soon another if he has his way. You are not far from Shavras. I must remain here, bonded to my tree, but I will send word to the winds of your travels.”

 

***The Dryad lifts the spell on the party and gives them three gifts…***

 

Magic Item’s from Dryad Dryad’s blessing Longbow +1 weapon and 5 thorn-bloom arrows. When shot and a hit, thorn-bloom arrows blossom into small thorny vines that tear open the wound causing an extra 1d6 damage.

 

Nature’s Mantle - Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement by a druid or ranger) This cloak shifts color and texture to blend with the terrain surrounding you. While wearing the cloak, you can use it as a spellcasting focus for your druid and ranger spells.

While you are in an area that is lightly obscured, you can Hide as a bonus action even if you are being directly observed.

 

3x imbued acorns – three acorns that when planted and watered sprout into a sapling that blossoms with the flowers of the tree that Erinthin is bound too.

After leaving Erinthin, the group sets out on the path out of Whisperwood Forest and into the Western Wilds en route to Shavras.

 

As they leave the forest, they come to a bridge and see a traveling merchant near the bridge. As the group approaches, the merchant transforms and before the party is the witch from Whisperwood.

 

“this is not the way, right or left one of which will lead to death”

 She claws at one of the party…

The Witch was defeated and her bag of souls was released by Kei.

 

 

 

 

Soul Bag. The hag has a soul bag. While holding or carrying the bag, the hag can use its Nightmare Haunting action.

 

 

 

 

 

Description

Night hags seek mortals to torment and turn to evil. By day, night hags use supernatural deceptions to plague their victims, shape-shifting to pose as other creatures and make their targets believe the world has turned against them. By night, these hags reinforce their tortures with terrifying dreams. Once they force their targets to desperate limits, night hags claim their victims’ tormented spirits, capturing them in sinister traps called soul bags. The hags then slip between planes of existence to barter stolen souls to vile magic-users and fiendish entities.

Night hags maintain networks of nefarious customers and collect rumors from across the Lower Planes. These hags might part with their secrets in exchange for magic items and other wicked prices.

 

****After defeating the Hag, the party continues on their way to Shavras. As they approach, they are walking up hill and at the top of the hill is an open field with the Shrine of Shavras in the distance.

 

The field is full of frenzied action as the party looks on to see a battle is happening between a group of Dwarves who are engaged with a bunch of Goblins and 5 Orcs. The group notices Dain is engaged in battle with the Orcs and goblins. 

 

In the distance, sits the ruins of the shrine of Shavras, the priest can be seen standing over the body of a woman who is laid before him on a stone slab. Behind them is a circle of stone glowing red. The priest is flanked by two skeletal knights.

 

As the party decides what to do, they see Greeve on the ground, he then transforms into a lizard-like creature, a Slaad…

https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/5195055-gray-slaad

 

Greeve charges towards the Shrine…

 

Group has initiative and Advantage to attack

 There is no greater crime in the eyes of the gods than perfidy, when a priest forsakes their vows of obedience and uses their influence to lead innocent members of the faith down paths of corruption and iniquity. The forsaken priest is a creature who betrayed the highest principles of its patron deity and became a force of malevolence and temptation to any soul caught in its clutches. In appearance, it appears almost lifelike, but with its skin drawn taught over its bones. It still wears the vestments and symbols of its former office, but any holy power it had has long ago withered away, replaced by darker energies.

 

 The false priest surrounds itself with fanatical acolytes and supporters who defend it with their lives. Few of them are truly evil – most are victims of the creature’s manipulations.

 

***As the party engages in battle, the sky is briefly shaded, as the group looks up, a large white dragon is high overhead. It continues flying away from the battle.

The Priest is levitating above Aidin and he is chanting a language that cannot be understood. Around him are hundreds of candles dripping blood. The circle behind him glints with a red shimmer.

 The party advances on towards the Shrine and engage the Skeletal Knights and and the Priest.  The Knights prove to be a tough match and the priests unholy magic create tension. Stol falls and is restored by Rudiger. The party defeats the Acolytes while  simultaneously chipping away at the Priest who is ultimately defeated and the portal crumbles behind him. 

Aidin is spared but very weak. 

After the battle, Greeve explains that the man that came to Phandalin last Spring explained the story of Shavras and told them a legend that in the ancient times, Barbarians sacked the town of Shavras. The villagers, after years of Barbarian attacks, decided to take all of their gold, melt it down into a bell and cast copper over the gold. The bell still sits atop the ruined shrine. 

Loot....

The bell of Shavras is worth 5,000gp and 1,000cp

Devotee's Censer -  https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2407478-devotees-censer

Circlet of Blasting - https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4603-circlet-of-blasting

 Mace of Disruption - https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4670-mace-of-disruption

 Throwing Axe +1

END

 

Session 5:

 

The party is at the Shrine of Shavras after defeating the Priest and his Accolytes. Aidin’s body remains on the stone slab near the body of the Priest.

 

As the group approaches Aidin, the Priest’s body liquifies and seeps into the Earth. The ground begins to shake and some of the ruins of Shavras begin to fall. As the dust settles, an entrance appears leading into the depths of Shavras.

 

Aidin leans up and says “something old is awakening. We must put an end to this.”

Aidin and Greeve join the party. Aidin is non-combative, Greeve is wounded and non-combative.

The entrance leads to a massive dungeon beneath Shavras.

 

Shadows flicker along the walls, replaying the last moments of the priests who sealed this place. They speak in fragmented whispers:

“The bloodline… must remain unbroken…”

“We were betrayed… the last of the faithful… slaughtered…”

“If the seal fails… the world will burn…”

 

As the group enters, they encounter 6 goblin warriors. The goblin warriors are no match for the party as they are quickly vanquished. The group finds a treasure chest containing:

Treasure chest #1

Ring of protection - Ring of Protection

Ring (Ring)

Category:Items
Item Rarity: Rare
Modifiers: Ac +1, Saving Throws +1
200 gp

 …the party heads deeper into the ruins.

In the next dungeon vault, the group encounters four skeletal warriors. The skeletal warriors appear older than others the group has encountered…ancient.

 

Stol uses his magic to repel some of the skeletal warriors and the group finishes off the others.

The party discovers another treasure chest containing:

 

Treasure chest 2

Battering Shield

Source: Explorer's Guide to Wildemount

Armor (shield), rare (requires attunement)

While holding this iron tower shield, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. This bonus is in addition to the shield's normal bonus to AC.

Additionally, the shield has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. If you are holding the shield and push a creature within your reach at least 5 feet away, you can expend 1 charge to push that creature an additional 10 feet, knock it prone, or both.

60gp

10 emeralds

Bag of holding

 

As the group presses on, they hear loud humming and sounds of torment.

They encounter a dungeon room where the walls are caked in old blood and bones piled in the corners. Towards the center of the room stands a hulking frame, an ogre!

 

The party engages the ogre who manages to get a few hits on the group before he is quickly defeated.

 

The group discovers another treasure chest containing:

 

Treasure chest 3:

175gp

Potion of healing

15 rubies

6 holy arrows arrows 1d8 radiant damage

Alchemy jug

 

As the group enters the next room, the walls are painted with large murals depicting the sacred bloodlines. Greeve notices that one of the crests is similar to his family crest.

 

Pushing further into the dungeon, the group hears the voice of the priest. “The lineage of the ancients will soon walk this realm again, the portal of the Undergods will be defended at all costs!”

 

Two Giant spiders scurry out from the darkness and surprise the party. The spiders, an ancient evil only prove to slow the party down momentarily as the party defeats them and presses further into the dungeon.

Treasure chest 4:

12 Silvered arrows

300 gp

16 emeralds

Pipes of Haunting

You must be proficient with wind instruments to use these pipes. They have 3 charges. You can use an action to play them and expend 1 charge to create an eerie, spellbinding tune. Each creature within 30 feet of you that hears you play must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. If you wish, all creatures in the area that aren't hostile toward you automatically succeed on the saving throw. A creature that fails the saving throw can repeat it at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature that succeeds on its saving throw is immune to the effect of these pipes for 24 hours. The pipes regain 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.

 

As the group enters the next vault, the room is lined with 4 statues of what appear to be ancient priests, as the party nears, the statues come to life and begin to take attack stances. The priests are shrouded by a darkness enveloping them and disguising their locations.

 

The ancient undead priests attempt to use their magic and deception in a battle against the party. Using tricks and Magic Missiles to protect the ancient unholy chamber. By using their skills and magic, the party defeats the undead priests.

 

As the group pushes into the next room, the room emanates an eerie purple hue, the floor pulses and in the center of the room a box with a heart floats and swirls in the center of the room.

 

As the group enters, the room pulses, a loud tearing sound is heard and the room starts violently shaking. Suddenly, a massive dark shade takes the form of the Priest.

 

“The power of the old gods is beyond your wildest dreams, a pledge to the ancients and you will wield it’s power.

 

The shape attacks…

The shape uses his wraith sword and attacks, the undead priest has proven to be the groups most formidable foe yet as the group takes some damage but their magic and skills hold.

 

The shape speaks again…”You and the world you know will all burn if you do not give an offering.

 

Aidin says, “I might be able to seal the heart of Shavras, keep him away from me!” She begins chanting.

 

The shape laughs a deafening laugh that shakes the room.

 

Suddenly four skeletal warriors spring up from the ground. The actual remains of ancient buried priests…they begin attacking the group.

 

Aidin is in the corner, Greeve is shielding her with his body. Aidin is chanting and the heart in the center of the room is shaking violently, it’s light pulsing and fading.

 

Greeve kisses Aidin on the back of the head and then makes a run towards the shape. As he approaches, The shape emits a giant sword of bone and impales Greeve.

 

The priest speaks…”A bastards blood may be as thin as water, but it still carries the weight of a crown.” Greeve’s body slides off the wraith’s sword and slumps on to the ground.

 

The party defeats the skeletal warriors and banishes the undead priest/shape.

 

Greeve’s body lays on the floor. Aidin goes to his side…

 

Greeve (labored breathing): My family never told me of their royal blood, but my death will only seal the vault until they track down all of my ancestors. Go, my fate is now tied here.

Greeve takes his last Earthly breath and becomes a wraith, now the guardian of the vault for eternity.

 

The walls of the vault begin to shake and crumble. The party escapes.

 

Loot:

1000 gp

Shield of Expression

Spell Scroll – Wither and Bloom

Cloak of many fashions

Spell Scroll - Summon Beast

 

 

End

 

 

Session 6

 

The party is still inside the chamber where they defeated the fallen priest. Greeve has taken the form of a wraith and now guardian of the sacred chamber of Shavras. He vanishes.

 

To the other side of the chamber is a large stone door. Through the door is a small valley that slopes down. About 3 miles away is the Village of Astgrove. A large village of roughly 3,000 people. There are many shops, pubs, food stalls, etc. 

  

**The jeweler offers the group 15000gp for the gems, explaining that they are very rough.**

The party decides to sell a portion of the gems, netting them 6000gp

 After the jeweler, they head to the smithy, they purchase 2 sets of plate armor that will be custom made and ready in 3 weeks. they also purchase a rapier and scimitar.

At the arcane shop they purchase some potions as well as the notable magic items Eyes of the Eagle - https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4635-eyes-of-the-eagle?srsltid=AfmBOoqGVuL-mh2tRmii4c5vx7MpPhszAZjgGj7UNOfyj0_xAPMkPEtq 

as well as Goggles of Night - https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4648-goggles-of-night?srsltid=AfmBOoo7vQxGQu_KIMVMLRZbaHhEE6h4XhaHszI1TSxuWHiTQ5PGrwK1

Outside of the tavern The Mason and the Chain, a man is running and is shot in the leg by an arrow and falls into the group. As the group turns to see what is going on, they see a group of Rangers approaching, walking calmly towards them currently unnarmed.

One of the rangers scoops up the man. One of the rangers approaches Skid and offers an apology for the disturbance. This man was seen poaching in the sacred grove.

The group notices that all of the men are dressed in Forest green with a leaf pendant on their right breast. The man, Harlix Darkleaf approaches Skid, leans in close while his hand is on his dagger, and asks “what would you be doing with a Dryad’s bow?”

 

Skid and Rudiger explain about encountering ***Erinthin a Dryad of the Moonwoods*** in Whisperwood Forest.

…After Skid’s explanation, Harlix then says to the group…Well then, on behalf of the Emerald Enclave, you have our admiration for aiding our woodland friends.  Please come and join us for a pint.

Inside the Mason and Chain Tavern, it is quite busy. Harlix sits down with his group and the party at a long table, patrons move to other tables to make room for the large group. The barkeep and his assistant begin bringing pints of ale to the table.

 “We are brothers of The Knock protectors of the wildlands, friends of the forest, bound together to preserve a natural balance in this harsh realm.” “Our oath stretches far and wide. We are a faction of The Emerald Enclave. We were drawn near after hearing of unnatural forces to the North Woods in the Astralglades…an ancient forest on the outskirts of Neverwinter.”

“What brings you lads to Astgrove?”

The party explains about defeating the Fallen Priest and what became of the ruins of Shavras. 

 

“Tonight we set foot to the North, we could use allies of your caliber. Should you wish to join us, we can offer our protection and a friend of the Emerald Enclave has it’s benefit throughout these lands.”

Setting out for the North Woods…

Encounter 1

2 goblin riders – AC = 16 HP = 18
4 goblins – AC =12 HP = 12
1 Goblin Wizard

The group is surprised by 4 goblin riders and a goblin wizard who attack from a ridge above them. The party takes some damage but Rudiger and Harlix prove deal the most damage and the party presses on. 

The group arrives In the evening and Harlix goes ahead to scout with Skid. As they peer over the ridge to the valley below, they see a large group of human slaves that appear to be building a structure by cutting down the forest around them. Skid and Harlix see lines of energy that emanate blue light surrounding the structure .There are more human-like figures, tall, in purple hooded robes watching over the slaves. The group witnesses rocks rolling uphill, somehow defying gravity. The wooden structure appears to resemble the jaw of a giant creature.

Harlix insists that they retreat back to Astgrove and inform The Knock of their findings in the North Woods. The group heads back to Astgrove just in time for Kei to enter the arm wrestling competition and defeat 3 of 4 competitors and win 400gp. 

 

END

 

 

Session 7

 

The party is summoned to a meeting by Harlix. They arrive in a large round room with torches burning. There are many members of both The Knock and what appear to be High Council of the Emerald Enclave…

 

Harlix announces to the party that the enclave has had their items delivered to the hall with some extra items…

 

30 silvered arrows

4 days of rations

 

Hartlix introduces the group to Rook Targrave, member of the High Council of the Emerald Enclave.

 

Rook steps forward and begins to speak as he walks around the group…almost sizing them up. His tone is stern, and almost unwelcoming.

 

“So this is the party that sealed the vault of Shavras?”

 

Harlix: “That’s correct, they arrived in Astgrove yesterday afternoon.”

 

Rook: “Yes, I know…listen, you aren’t here in this hall before the high council because you defeated some wayward heretic…What you witnessed last night in the Astralglades is a force greater than anything you could ever imagine. An ancient being, a builder of worlds being summoned to rip this world apart and build a new world of torment and destruction. All that you know, everything you’ve touched, everyone you’ve loved will be lost.  Those robed men you saw, are of the Slanted Circle.

What the slaves are constructing is the Throat of Aru’xat, an ancient resonance engine and binding lattice designed to awaken and anchor a slumbering primordial beast from deep beneath this world. This creature is not merely physical—it is half-spirit, half-world, an ancient being of roots and bone known in druidic lore as:

 Aru'xat the Verdant Maw – the "Feeder of Forests," a titanic, serpentine entity believed to have been sealed during the Dawn Wars when the gods first planted life in the material plane. It once devoured entire worlds to nourish its growth. Now the Slanted Circle attempt to awaken Aru’Xat by aligning ley lines to send the resonance deeper. A powerful array of ley energy exists within the Astralglades as well as the ancient grove of sacred Heartwood they are using for the Maw Frame.

We have sent many members of The Enclave to seek more information from various oracles throughout the realm. We have identified four beings of the ancients that may be able to aid us in keeping the Slanted Circle from awakening Aru-Xat. Most notably is Nythraxil, an ancient rose quartz dragon who was banished to the isle of Stonehell. Nythraxil and Aru’Xat are the ancient world builders of what we stand on now. Aru-Xat was tempted by power and Nythraxil was summoned to destroy him but Nythraxil failed. In his failure, Nythraxil stole an ancient ley stone and banished himself to the Isle of Stonehell where he slumbers, his body so old that it has been fused to the stone of his lair. You must travel to Stonehell and bring back the Ley stone. We have arranged for a barge for you in Muck Bay. Captain Tallow will see to your arrival to Stonehell. Harlix will join you…be warned, the Slanted Circle will be seeking the Ley stone as well. You must not let them retrieve it, The Slanted Circle have many allies and resources and their corruption knows no bounds."

Harlix then takes the group aside to prepare for the trip…

 

Rook pulls Rudiger asid… “what is your name young man? “

 

Rook:  “ I sense an internal conflict in you. Please join me in my study.”

 

Rook takes Rudiger into his study… “I have a sense that the wielding of magic comes new to you, yes?”

“It was once new to me as well.”

 Rook turns around to face Rudiger. Within Rook’s hands is a small swirl of air, slowly growing bigger in his hands. Pages and scrolls begin to rustle in the room. Rook closes his hands and the room is calm.

“I have something I’d like for you to have. He hands Rudiger a scroll. “The storm within us can manifest out if we are not careful.”

The scroll is a Lightning Resistance spell.

 

Harlix assembles the party and they make way for Muck Bay by traveling along the edge of the Astralglades.

 

While traveling through the Forest, the group spots A shimmering patch of ice-crystal flower blooms across the forest floor, despite the summer heat. The blossoms emit cold and soft ringing sounds, like tuning forks.

 

These are ley line scars, physical symptoms of the imbalance—the life-force of the land is freezing into resonance patterns.

 

Arcana/Nature checks reveal that harvesting one flower gives a temporary cold resistance boon or spell focus boost.

 

However, disturbing more than one causes a Ley bound Ice Elemental to awaken from the bloom.

 

Frost Elemental – The frost elemental appears weary and explains to the group that the world is changing. The balance of nature is shifting. She bestows the group with an amulet that allows for the Frost Fingers spell to be learned.

 

Pressing further through the Forest on the path to Muck Bay, the group encounters a group of weary travelers.

 

Hello, we are traveling to Idenglade and we are lost and out of food. Can you spare any rations? We were robbed last night. Perhaps we can make camp with you all for the night?

 

All of a sudden one of the men, pulls a short sword and demands money. He attacks, the others soon follow and attack.

 

 After defeating the attackers and upon further inspection, the men have markings of the Slanted Circle. They don’t have much other than their clothing and weapons.

 

It is night and the group must make camp for the night.

 

In the morning it is a short trip to Muck Bay where the party is met by Captain Tallow. Tallow insists that he needs another hour to supply the ship (Siren’s Song). The water looks very calm, almost too calm. There are a few shops to explore.

 Magic Shop

Tavern

Hostel

 Captain Tallow soon gathers the group for departure. As they travel out to sea, the sea is still glassy and calm.

 

A fog hangs over the water, it is overcast. All of a sudden, out of the fog, a ship appears close by. The ship steers alongside. The ship is full of men and they are now attempting to board.

There are roughly 12 men attempting to board the boat. On the stern is a calm figure with a fixed gaze just watching the melee.

   

As the party battles with the pirates and mage, all of a sudden the water begins to swirl and a giant tentacle is seen towering above the ship. It grabs one of the pirates and throws him against the hull of the ship. A mist of blood sprays the group. As the party looks on, the battle stops and the creature emerges, a kraken!

 

The group has initiative.

 

 

On the Kraken’s third turn, he slams one of his tentacle into the pirate ship and 3 barrels of explosives ignite, severing the tentacle and dealing 75 dmg to the kraken. The pirate ship is broken up and starts sinking, the men in the water begin panicking and a few of them drown. The mage is seen levitating above the shipwreck and staring directly at Captain Tallow. Captain Tallow continues to stare at the mage as the mage quickly descends into the water not to be seen. Captain Tallow turns his attention to the kraken, the kraken appears to be staring right back at Captain Tallow. The kraken then quickly descends.

 The group inquires about Captain Tallow who explains that he is a member of the enclave. A druid of Ebberon. He explains that he thinks the kraken was summoned to this plane of existence by the mage they saw or maybe the mage’s master.

 

Tallow: “A kraken can shift between planes but I know for fact that there is no kraken lair in these waters. When outside the perimeter of it’s lair, a kraken is considerably weaker. I banished the kraken to wherever it came from but that mage eludes me. He escaped on his own accord, not my doing. We must press on, that mage is not far behind. I sensed his confusion on the whereabouts of Stonehell Isle, an island hidden by an enchanted mist.”

 

The party pushes on, steered by Captain Tallow. They approach a thick bank of fog and Tallow moves to the front of the ship and whispers a chant and throws what appear to be herbs into the water. The fog lifts, and a sleepy island with large spires of stone appear before them.

 

Tallow lands the boat on a sandy beach, a large stone spire towers over them, large birds circle in the air at the top of the spire.

 

Tallow insists on staying with the ship as it’s their only way off of Stonehell.

“Stay on the path, when you get to the top, do not show the dragon any fear. Explain what Rook told you about Aru-Xat and that you need the ley stone to anchor the ley line in the Astralglades. Go!”

 

The party sets out on the path winding up to the spire of Stonehell. Near the top, they encounter 4 Giant Vultures. The group quickly dispatches them. 

 

After defeating the vultures, the group reaches Nythraxil’s lair…before them lay a chamber of still quartz pools, the party  is required to release a memory to be perceived by the dragon.

 

Each person touches a crystal pool and silently focuses on a formative memory—something that shaped who they are.

 

The crystal absorbs a shimmering echo of that memory, which forms into a floating shard and drifts into the air, singing softly.

 

The dragon is drawn to memory tones—this is how she "sees" mortals.

 

As the party turns a corner in the lair, they see the dragon on it’s side, a hulking mass of red, pink and white. It’s age as apparent as it’s struggle. Now bound to the world it crafted, a prisoner of itself.

 

Nythraxil speaks in draconic and tones of common.

 

“I felt your presence from far off. I sensed a being not of this realm in the waters. Why are you trespassing in my lair?”

 The group explains about Aru'Xat and they Maw Frame...

Nythraxil: “Aru’Xat… a name I hoped would stay buried where he was banished…You require the ley stone? Like my own body, it too has fused to the quartz.  The ley stone will only anchor the ley lines in the Astralglades. The Slanted Circle will seek other anchors. The Jundites of Ebberon will have the key of Agmon. If he still walks this realm, seek the word of Ildrar, a cleric of the ancient race of Orondin.

 A large blast hits above the dragon shattering the stone from above. It crumbles down near the dragon as he is startled by the blast and is now thrashing around. The ley stone is unscathed in the blast.

 

As the group looks down, they see the mage from the shipwreck.

 

Nythraxil, in his startled state begins to breathe fire to the side of him. The mage is still too low to be affected by it. The lair is now sweltering, Nythraxil attempts to kick the ley stone to dislodge it from the stone but is unable to.

 

The group engages in battle with the mage who sends magic missiles towards the party, slowing their attacks. 

 

The mage sends a giant blast of ice at the dragon, it misses but turns a large piece of stone above to ice and it falls, severing the dragons wing that is fused to the stone. Nythraxil attempts to stand up and with a blast of fire from his breath towards the mage, he falls down the mountain.  

 Now enraged at the death of Nythraxil, the party ramps up their attacks on the mage...Rudiger secures the Ley Stone. The party is victorious in defeating the mage. 

After defeating the mage, the group returns to Captain Tallow with the ley stone and they set sail back to Astgrove.

After some hesitancy to the give the Ley Stone over to Rook, they eventually decide to give it over to the Emerald Enclave. The party explains to Rook about what Nythraxil told them about Eberron...

END

 

After arriving back in Astgrove, the party meets with Rook and the Emerald Enclave. Rook explains that their travel to Eberron will be tough and that they will need to be disguised. He explains that Eberron exists in a different plane than here and that to get there, they will need to be transported through a ley portal.

 

Rook: “Nythraxil’s death is a wound to the balance itself… but his sacrifice brought us the ley stone. And this ‘Slanted Circle’ mage, they are only the blade’s edge of a much darker hand.”

You will travel to Sharn in Eberron. Eberron is an ancient realm that exists on an entirely different plane than FaeRun. You will travel to Sharn via the keyport. An ancient planal junction deep beneath the Heartwood Oak. a druidic teleport nexus once used to move agents across the planes.

The ley stone from Stonehell fits into its heart like a keystone, powering the jump.

Most importantly, you will travel under the guise as operatives of The Black Mantle. A shadowy espionage syndicate that is feared in the underworlds of Sharn.

 

“The ley does not move you as you are. It moves you as you must appear. In Eberron, you will wear the Mantle until the stone chooses otherwise. Your faces, your papers, your deeds. Play the role well, or be unmasked.”

 

Rook then introduces Alkanar, an elderly Dragon Born who is the Enclave’s Geographer and Historian.

 

Alkanar: “Sharn is the most populous city in all of Khorvaire. The city literally towers atop a cliff above the mouth of the Dagger River in southern Breland. Sharn is known as the City of Towers, for its impressive skyline of tall towers, but has also been called many other names, including the City of Knives, the City of Lost Souls, the City of a Thousand Eyes, the Gateway to Xen'drik, and the Gateway to Perdition.

 

The city now known as Sharn was built upon a foundation that dates back thousands of years before humans ever settled Khorvaire. During that time, the goblinoid Dhakaani Empire's greatest city was carved into the jagged cliffs that Sharn now towers over. This city was called Ja'Shaarat. This metropolis didn't rise toward the skies, like Sharn does. Instead, the architects of the Dhakaani built a vast number of chambers and tunnels into and under the ground. As the city grew in size, the Dhakaani eventually built great monolithic buildings on the plateaus above the Dagger River that would later serve as the foundations for Sharn. When the daelkyr invaded Eberron, the city was devastated, and the goblins never had a chance to restore it to its greater glory.

Thousands of years later, when human settlers from Sarlona began to explore Khorvaire, they stumbled upon the Dagger River. The river led Malleon the Reaver and his explorers to the site where Ja'Shaarat once stood. There, he enslaved what goblins still resided in the ruins and erected a fortress. He sealed off the lower wards of the ancient goblinoid city and named the city Shaarat, as a result of stories told by the goblins he enslaved. For 600 years, Shaarat prospered and grew into a powerful metropolis once again. Breggor Firstking, the first ruler of what would become Breland, eventually conquered Shaarat and renamed it Sharn.

 

Sharn is a vertical city. It is divided up into five distinct plateaus: Central Plateau, Menthis Plateau, Northedge, Dura, and Tavick's Landing, as well as the Cliffside district built into the sides of the cliff near the Dagger River.

 

You will arrive in the Stores in the Warehouse District of The Cogs.

 

Make note of Tavick’s Landing,  the terminus of the magic-infused Lightning Rail.

 

Alkanar hands the group a map of Khorvaire, as well as a map of the lower district of Sharn.

 

Alkanar: “May your path be true. Remember the balance “

 

Rook then tells the party that they will be blindfolded and led to the Keyport.

 

Rook: “Remember, your guise is only as safe as your mind allow it. Remember your ultimate goal of seeking the word of Ildrar.”

 

The group are then led to the key port. After a brief ritual, they enter the ley portal and are teleported.

 

The world folds in on itself. Sound becomes light, light becomes heaviness, and you are pulled through a rushing tunnel of voices and echoes. For a moment you are weightless, drifting in the hum of ley resonance, and then…

 

THUMP.

 

You land hard on wooden floorboards. The smell hits you first: tobacco smoke, cheap brandy, and the faint tang of iron. Dim light flickers from lanterns, their glow warped through green glass, casting long shadows across rough-hewn tables.

 

You are in a tavern backroom. A  table waits before you, scarred with knife marks, a single candle flickering. On the table rests a sealed envelope, pressed with a wax sigil, crossed swords in black sealant.

 

The barkeep’s voice drifts from the half-open door behind you. Rough, nervous, rehearsed.

 

“Black Mantle… your reputation precedes you. Everything’s been arranged. No one will disturb you.”

 

The door clicks shut. You are alone, but don’t feel that you are. The walls carry sound strangely here, as if whispers crawl through the walls. Somewhere out in the tavern, laughter erupts suddenly, then cuts off too fast. You have the feeling you are being observed, though you cannot see where from.

 

The envelope lies before you, waiting to be opened

The black wax cracks with a soft snap as you break the seal. Inside is a folded sheet of thick vellum, written in a precise, sharp pen. The ink glimmers faintly when it catches the candlelight, as though infused with some arcane element.

 

The letter reads:

 

“Mantle Operatives,

 

Your arrival has been noted, and your reputation precedes you. The Circle whispers, the Houses listen, and the knives are already out.

 

Your cover will hold, for now. Wear it well. Sharn believes the Black Mantle has returned, and with it, fear.

 

Your first task is simple: go to the Cornerstone Tavern in the Callestan district. Ask for the house game of ‘Iron and Ash.’ Your contact will find you.

 

Do not linger. Already, ears press to walls and eyes follow in the smoke. The Slanted Circle has agents in Sharn, and they are hunting for new faces.

 

Trust no one but the Mantle.

 

-V.”

 

You exit the tavern and step out onto slick cobblestones beneath a rain-washed sky. The air here is heavy with smoke and the mixed smells of cooking food and sewage, the streets are lit faintly by the crackle of everbright lanterns that buzz like angry insects. Above you, towers rise into the mist, layer upon layer of stone and steel, each balcony crowded with shadowed figures leaning over the city’s veins. This is Sharn, the City of Towers.

 

Already, whispers follow you down the street like a second shadow.

 

The way to Callestan, the underbelly of Sharn, is narrow and winding. Cobblestones give way to crooked alleys, where dripping bridges cross between leaning towers, and flickering dragonshard lamps light up private meetings in doorways and alleys. Somewhere above, music from a sky-lounge drifts faintly down.

 

The Cornerstone Tavern looms ahead, a slab of rough stone and iron, its doors scarred from decades of brawls. Inside, the smell of blood, sweat, and fire wine hits immediately. The tavern is built around a central fighting pit, where two mercenaries in spiked gauntlets circle each other, cheered on by gamblers and drunkards.

 

You step inside, and the crowd shifts slightly. A hush falls briefly, before the noise resumes.

 

At the bar, a broad-shouldered barkeep with a broken nose meets your gaze. His voice is gruff, the words rehearsed, as if he’s been told to expect you.

 

“What’ll it be?”

 

***Iron and Ash***

 

 You’ll find your seat in the corner booth.”

 

A serving girl passes, but when she sets down the drinks, her face flickers for a heartbeat—eyes that are too sharp, a smile that doesn’t quite fit.

 

A changeling, shifting through borrowed faces.

 

She leans close, whispering so only you can hear:

 

V-   “Mantle. You’re late. And the Circle is already moving. Sip slowly and buy another round and meet me outside in 25 minutes.”

 

As she rises and vanishes into the smoke of the crowd, the air shifts. A scrape of chairs. A hush in the pit. The mercenaries mid-brawl stop and look toward your table. Several rough looking types in black leathers push their way towards your table.

As they reach your table, one of them pulls out a dagger and slams it into the table.

Mercenary: “Funny thing, the Mantle don’t walk Sharn no more, so who are you wearing their faces?”

The fight pit crowd immediately erupts, gamblers cheering, throwing mugs, and shouting odds.

 

Roll Initiative.

 

 

5 thugs

 

In the middle of the melee, 3 men in leather armor and purple scarves approach. A pickpocket attempts to steal the letter as the other two draw daggers and attack. The theft attempt succeeds because the party is engaged.

As the last Circle bruiser hits the floor, you spot movement near the tavern doors. A wiry figure in a dark cloak bolts upright, clutching a scrap of parchment. His eyes widen as he sees you watching, and without hesitation, he crashes through the doors and vanishes into the rain slick streets of Callestan.  

 

Stol and Kei stay behind to finish off the thugs as the rest of the party gives chase…

 

Pursuit:

 

Outside of Callestan, the streets are littered with townspeople, and bustling market stalls draw small crowds.

 

The runner barrels through a narrow street bazaar while vendors shout angrily.

 

The party manages to keep the pace for the most part as Rudiger misses with his Ray of Frost spell.

 

At one point, a vendor shouts to stop the thieves! And a group of urchins pursues pelting rocks at the party.

The runner is stunned and incapacitated by Accoa and as he awakens…

 

The runner cowers, all he mentions is that “the stone sang your path, he sees.” He says nothing more.

 

On his person, is…

-torn piece of a larger logbook, written in jagged, druidic shorthand script.

Mentions:

 

“Shipment – Dragonshards, Callestan – two nights via lightning rail.

“Mantle to arrive – confirmed” Cornerstone. Expect resistance. Test their resolve.”

 

Veyra, says that the script looks to have been forged and appears to have the arcane script of the Enclave.

A sliver of translucent crystal, humming faintly in the runner’s hand.

 

Arcana check reveals: it’s keyed to a larger scrying focus. someone on the other end is watching through it.

 

Veyra suggests, the party consult the local Enclave chapter in the hivemarket about the note but first, they should visit her cipher contact in the black market district.

 

Arrival at the Black Market in Sharn

Veyra leads the group to her contact in the black markets of Sharn. A den of smoke and booze.

 

Veyra introduces the group to Yog, a rough lookin goblin with one eye.

 

If asked, Yog explains quietly that he could be killed for this information.

 

 intimidation succeeds, Yog explains that an unusual looking mage that he’d never seen before paid good money for a druidic cipher book.  He also mentioned “Verdant Hollow”.

 

If asked for a further description, Yog explains that the mage’s face was badly burned.

 

As Yog tells this information to the party, a large arrow silently splits his head open.

 

Encounter – 7 Circle Warriors

The group fends of the Circle Warriors with a combination of magic and melee.

The sudden melee has the market stirring, it’s time to leave.

 

Veyra tells the party that the “Verdant Hollow” is the local chapter of the Emerald Enclave.

 

Arrival at the Enclave

Hidden in a hollowed tower garden, the Enclave’s Sharn branch keeps a sanctuary of ivy and moss under glowing stones. Tension simmers, some druids greet the party warmly, others coldly.

Hidden behind a sagging archway in the Hivemarket District, the Enclave maintains a secluded safehouse:

 

A courtyard overtaken by ivy and moss.

A half-broken fountain, water trickling with an unnatural green shimmer.

 

Inside, six druids and rangers debate fiercely, voices sharp with distrust. Some are relieved to see the party. Others sneer at their Black Mantle guise.

 

Elarion Mossbark:  Enclave elder, patient and weary. Wants truth and balance.

Thyra Ashvine: Radical druid, fierce and suspicious. Believes meddling with ley anchors is dangerous.

 

Thyra: “Every seal you break weakens the balance. Perhaps it is better the Circle tests you to weed out false guardians.”

 

The druids already know of the forged note and that it resembles their cipher.

 

Half believe the party planted it to sow mistrust.

 

Half fear it’s proof of a traitor within the Enclave.

 

Thyra is adamant that the party are traitors and are after the ley stones to destroy the natural balance.

 

Thyra senses something…do you harbor a ley fragment?

 

Thyra draws her short sword.

 

Elarion interjects and puts an end to the tension. He offers the group information in secrecy…

 

“The enclave had a druidic cipher stolen two days ago. It was not given freely but there may be an inside operative. I saw a tall man, in enclave robes near the black market. The enclave is sparse in these parts and I have never seen this man before. I interrogated a vendor that was talking with the man and he said his name was “Harlix”. I have not given further information of this to the enclave, I have a young Ranger tailing him for more information.

Now, of this ley shard. It’s resonance has been tracking your movements more than your Black Mantle guise. I have a feeling that the suggestion of Mantle operatives was so your presence could be more easily tracked through Sharn. I suggest you shed those costumes. Give me the ley shard and I will bind its resonance here where it is safe. “

 

Veyra interjects and asks about the note mentioning a Dragonshard shipment. “What about the note’s mention of the dragonshards?”

 

Elarion mentions it could be a setup but if the Circle really is planning a Dragonshard heist, they must be stopped. These shards are rare, volatile, and critical for binding planar rituals, if the Circle gets them, they may reach the ley anchor before the party does.

 

The only way to stop them is to intercept the shipment mid-transport.

 

I would suggest heading to Tavick’s Landing. “

 

Veyra says she will meet the group at Tavick’s Landing docks at 9pm. It is currently 6pm.

 

Arriving at Tavick’s Landing -  The Lightning Rail terminal in Sharn is a cathedral of steel and dragonshard light. Crystal pylons hum with power, arcs of blue lightning dancing between them as massive bound elementals strain to life. Porters shout over the roar of engines as passengers hurry to board. The terminal is alive with motion, a perfect cover for an exchange, or an ambush.

And there, near the cargo platform, they spot him: Harlix. Hood drawn low, speaking quietly with a rail agent who leads him down the platform near the engine room.

 

The doors to the train open. And a throng of passengers scurry to board.

 

In the frenzy you spot the rail agent walking towards your platform. A voice booms…

 

It is Harlix, he steps out of the shadows and removes his hood.

 

Harlix: “You should have stayed blind. The anchors bind more than Vorthalax, they bind the world! I would see those chains broken, even if it means burning every bridge.”

The rail agent is now in front of Harlix. His face shifts between different faces and stops…It’s Veyra!

 

Veyra: “Did you truly think I was your ally? Every step, every whisper, every move—I fed to the Circle. You weren’t Mantle. You were marionettes.”

 

Suddenly, the party is shoved aboard and a scuffle ensues.

 

The Night Watch Guards – draw short swords and daggers

 

After defeating the Watch, the group moves up to the next train car. This car is full of sleeping Circle agents.

 

Rudiger casts a fireball and all but one of the agents goes up in flames. The lone survivor escapes to the engine room.

 

The next car up is the engine room.

 

Harlix, Veyra and 6 Circle agents guard the Dragonshard shipment.

 

Harlix admits he still respects them:

 

Harlix: “You fight for balance, even if you don’t see the truth. Join us, help us break the seals before it’s too late.”

 

Veyra taunts them with half-truths:

 

Veyra: “Even your Enclave elders hesitate. Do you really think they all wanted you to succeed?”

 

The fight is tense as the group uses ranged weapons, magic and melee attacks. In the melee, Veyra and the Circle agents are killed. Harlix then surrenders. He explains that the Eberron ley anchor is deep in the belly of Eberron in the ancient Dhaakani dungeons. That the Circle mage intends to reach the lower levels but he is being strongarmed by a Dragonmarked House.

 

END

 

Session 9

 

Tavick’s Landing

 

The group is at Tavick’s Landing after defeating Harlix and Veyra on the Lightning Train. Before them is a small chest of dragonshards.

 

While inspecting the dragonshards, they hear a loud crash from behind them and a bright flash of light…

 

The memory of the ley gate burns bright in your minds, the surge of power, the blinding light, the sound like a storm tearing through stone. You remember stepping into Eberron together… but when the light cleared, something was off.

 

Now, days later, as thunder rolls through Sharn’s depths, you find yourselves standing before a half-collapsed tunnel near the Lightning Rail terminus. The air hums faintly with the same resonance as the ley stone…alive, pulsing.

 

A hand juts from the rubble of the collapsed tunnel. charred, twitching. And then a voice:

 

Skid Demon: “Took you long enough…”

 

He coughs dust, dragging himself free of the stones. His armor crackles with faint arcs of static, his blade still glowing from ley discharge. For a heartbeat, his eyes flash white, he’s seen something. Something vast.

 

Skid Demon: “The ley current split. I fell through the ley like a crack in glass. I saw lines, like rivers of light all leading to a heart of stone. Something’s moving beneath. Watching. Waiting. I recall fleeting images of Dhakaani ruins, towering arches carved in obsidian. The anchor, a heartbeat of light buried in darkness. And the eye of Vorthalax, opening briefly, before the vision shattered.”

The group hear stirring behind them as three dwarven warriors approach…

 

Master Molrik: “Aye, we felt a flux of ley energy from a half mile away…”

 

Glun: Steps towards Skid…he looks astounded as ley energy surges around Skid… “Stone-born.” 

 

Molrik: “Rook said there might be some ley disturbance but we didn’t expect anything like this…” He touches his lantern to Skid and ley energy arcs to it.

 

“Rook said you may need some hands that know the depths. Our people will take the traitor back to the enclave and ensure the dragonshards are safe with the enclave.”

 

Molrik hands Kei a sack of Dragonshard dust. “For your troubles lad.”

 

After leading them through the collapsed tunnel opening, Molrik raises his hammer, and the fallen stones move back into place, sealing the collapse.

 

“Follow us, there are roads under Sharn that haven’t known boots since the goblin kings fell.”

 

 As the dwarves lead them further down, they hear the faint sounds of hammers on metal.

 

“These are the halls of our people that came after the Dhaakani fell.”

 

The air is getting hotter and smells of ash and oil.

The Dwarven forge

 

They emerge into a cavern lit by magma streams flowing through ancient channels.

 

“These forges were lit by Dhakaani fire long before ours. We only borrowed their flame.”

 

Massive anvils and bellows lie shattered. The dwarves stop to kneel at a fallen statue of a forge god, muttering a quick prayer. Runes glow from the statue and on the walls.

 

Molrik gestures toward a sealed archway ahead, its archway carved with Dhakaani script and a Dhaakani seal.

 

Molrik: “Beyond this door lies the old empire. The ley runs strongest there. You’ll feel it in your bones soon enough.”

 

The tunnel slopes downward into a vast cavern, where broken bridges span a chasm glowing faintly blue from ley energy far below.

 

Skid feels the pulse sync with his heartbeat, he’s become a living compass for the path forward.

 

The group deciphers the dhaakani seal and the giant sealed door unlocks with a loud clank.

 

 Dwarf Cavern

 

At the base of the descent, the dwarves establish a small forward camp where the party can rest, repair, and prepare before pressing into the true ruins. Molrik drives his hammer into the earth, where it strikes stone and hums softly, proof they’re close.

 

Molrik tells them:

 

“The leyline’s song grows loud here. The next gate lies beyond the old war halls. Once you cross it, the stone’s ours no longer, it’s Dhakaani.”

 

Then he looks to Skid:

 

“You bear the storm’s mark, lad. The Depths will listen to you more than me. Lead the way.”

 

 

SHORT REST

 

 The dwarves’ hammers fall silent. The last torchlight flickers against walls of blackened stone. Ahead, a vast stone arch yawns, carved in precise, militaristic angles. The air is colder here…still, like a held breath. The hum of the leyline thumps beneath your feet, matching the beat of your hearts.

 

Master Molrik raises his lantern. The light barely touches the far wall before vanishing into shadow. Rows of armored statues stand sentinel, hobgoblin warriors frozen in perfect formation, their visors hollow, their blades lowered in salute. And somewhere deeper within, a faint sound, like a hundred voices whispering in unison.

 

Master Molrik: “This is where the old ones walked. The empire that fought dragons and won. We go no further. The rest… is yours. If you happen across Molrik banners, we’d appreciate their return, a reward of course.”

 

He plants his hammer in the ground, the clang echoing into silence. One of the younger dwarves mutters a prayer to the forge gods before retreating.

 

Molrik raises his Warhammer and speaks in ancient Dwarven…a sigil on the door appears and the door loudly unlocks.

 

The dwarves then turn and head back the way they came. Their lanterns fading into darkness.

 

The Hall of Warriors

 

The party steps into a chamber room, long and narrow. The walls are lines with statues of Dhaakani warrirors and enscriptions.

 

 Statue Examination: Each hobgoblin statue bears Dhakaani inscriptions: “Hold the line.” “The war is eternal.” “Guard the heart.”

 

“Command → Discipline → Unity → Victory.”

 

one statue’s eyes flicker faintly, the spirit within is half-awake.

 

Echo Voices: the party hears overlapping whispers, fragments of Dhakaani battle hymns or commands: “Form ranks. The anchor must not fall.”

 

The leyline’s hum deepens into a low thrumming that presses behind your eyes. The air ripples,  faint at first, then violently. The stone under your boots warps, softening into shapes, colors, movement. You blink and the hall is no longer cold or empty, t’s alive.

 

Hobgoblin soldiers march in perfect lines. The banners blaze crimson and gold. You smell oil and smoke. But none of them see you. They march straight through you.

 

The leyline has caught you in a memory, the Hall remembers its last war.

 

The leyline’s energy builds. The walls flicker between now and then.

 

Each round, fragments of the past overlap: soldiers shouting, war drums pounding, spells flaring across time.

 

The group experience disorienting visions — for instance:

 

Stol sees himself as a Dhakaani soldier.

 

Kei feels the weight of command and failure.

 

Skid Demon sees a storm tearing through the ley, the same pulse that marked him.

 

 Skid’s ley-mark glows white-hot,  he becomes the focus.

 

As the ley storm rages, the floor drops out beneath them…hurling them into the next level.

 

The party finds themselves in a cavern hall.

 

Room 1: The Hall of Seals

 

Purpose: A defensive entryway protecting the inner sanctum.

A long corridor flanked by massive stone reliefs of hobgoblin commanders. The floor is a mosaic of rune-inscribed tiles. The air feels charged, faintly humming.

Trap / Puzzle Mechanics:

 

Trap Trigger: Stepping on the wrong rune triggers a force-field blade across the hall.

 

Stepping on the correct path deactivates the trap for one minute.

The party steps on the wrong sequence twice and a 10 ft blade of force energy cuts into them causing damage.

 

At the end of the hall is a doorway to the next room, a glowing inscription above the doorway reads “The War Scholars Quarters”…

 

Room 2: The War Scholars Quarters

 

The passage opens into a wide, hexagonal chamber lined with cracked stone tablets and broken weapon racks. The floor is scattered with shattered helmets, and the faint smell of  ash lingers in the air. In the center stands a massive stone desk half-buried under fallen debris. The leyline hum grows sharper here , vibrating in your bones.

 

As your boots scrape across the dust, runes ignite on the walls. The sound of armor locking into place echoes all around you.

 

 Suddenly, The dead scholars of war have awakened.

 

Enemies

 

 

The group encounters 3  Dhakaani Wraith-Tacticians, undead knights of the shadows.

Stol casts turn undead and causes the wraiths to recoil in fear. Accoa casts Moonbeam after Skid misses his target and hits one of the wraiths, breaking the spell on the wraiths.

 

Death Speech:

On death, they whisper: “The heart below must never fall…”

 

An inscription above the next door reveals “The Gauntlet of Stone & Shadow”…

 

Room 3: The Gauntlet of Stone & Shadow

The next passage narrows and stretches ahead into a vaulted corridor of black basalt pillars. Dust falls from the ceiling with every heartbeat. Each pillar is carved with warriors standing back-to-back, their eyes blindfolded, blades drawn. The faint blue ley glow from the cracks in the stone, as if breathing. Shadows cling to the walls, stretching as you pass.

 

The hum of the leyline sharpens into a low rhythmic thrum. Something here is waiting.

 

Enemies: First Wave: Dhakaani Revenants

 

6 Undead Hobgoblin Warriors emerge from alcoves when the party crosses the first arch.

 

They attack methodically, one blocking the front while the other calls tactical orders.

 

“Form ranks! Protect the line!”

 

The hobgoblins are quickly vanquished by the group.

 

Enemy Second Wave: Stonebound Guardians (2) (1) Shadow Captain

 

Two stone guardians emerge from the pillars themselves, their armor fuses and hardens from the stone.

 

Their attacks leave streaks of blue flame, fragments of ley energy reacting to intrusion.

The Shadow Captain steps out of the shadows, flanked by the stone gollums.

When the Shadow Captain falls, his body dissolves into ash, leaving the corridor silent except for the low thrum of ley energy. The command token in the final wall begins to vibrate, pointing toward a sealed bronze door marked “ The Heart Stone Chamber”

 

A faint chanting echoes beyond it.

 

As the vault settles, the room grows eerily quiet again. The ley hum narrows to a single low tone, vibrating underfoot.

A sealed stone stairway opens in the floor, spiraling down, the light below pulsing like a heartbeat.

 

“The Heart awaits below. Enter only with purpose.”

 

 

The Heart Stone Chamber

 

You descend a spiral stair that seems to breathe, each step hums beneath your feet. The air thickens, metallic and charged. The passage opens into a vast, cathedral-like chamber, its ceiling lost in darkness. In the center rises a black monolith of obsidian, veined with pulsing light. It throbs like a heartbeat, each pulse sending ripples of blue radiance across the floor.

 

Around the monolith stand twelve statues of hobgoblin generals, their faces hidden beneath helms. Between them, ley conduits snake outward into the walls, vanishing into infinity. The entire chamber hums with restrained power.

 

And then a voice, not from the air, but from within your skull speaks:

 

“The Heart endures. Who commands the stone?”

 

Phase 1 – The Guardian Wakes

 

As the party approaches within 30 ft, the ground erupts and up springs…

 

Enemy: General Varkuun, the last Dhakaani warlord, an undead hobgoblin encased in ley-crystal armor, eyes burning with blue light.

 

He raises his blade in salute.

 

“You come for the Heart. As we once did. Prove your right, or perish.”

 

Environment factors:

 

Ley Pulses: Every 3 rounds, a surge ripples outward.

 

Shifting Terrain: Ley conduits glow brighter, anyone standing on one can channel ley energy for additional 1d8 dmg but takes 2 lightning damage in return. The group uses this to their advantage.

Varkkuun fights fiercely but before he is sent back to the shadow realm, he kneels before the party and says…

“you are the last commanders. Guard what we could not.”

…and the Anchor’s core opens, allowing access to the ley.

 As you see the ley anchor’s base appear fractured, light and sound fold in on themselves. The hum turns to a howl, blue radiance spills through every crack in the stone. Then, silence. A silhouette steps from the light.

 

A tall figure in tattered robes, the Circle’s sigil burned into one sleeve, he watches the ley pulse with a cold, analytical calm. His eyes glow faintly from within the hood, blue reflections of ley energy.

 

Circle Mage: “You’ve done what even my peers dared not, touched the Heart itself.”

Then he vanishes in a shimmer, leaving behind a faintly glowing sigil burned into the floor.

*note the small crystal shard left behind

 As the others begin to debate what to do with the anchor, light surges from the monolith in a violent flash. The hum becomes a piercing note only Skid can hear. His body goes rigid, eyes white with leyfire, and the world falls away…

 

He stands alone in an endless cavern of glass and shadow. Blue ley lines spider through the ground below him, pulsing in rhythm with his heartbeat. For every pulse, the ground trembles. faintly at first, then violently. Cracks split the horizon. Through them, something vast shifts beneath the earth.

 

A single voice rises from the ley, not a scream, but a low, resonant murmur that shakes the marrow:

 

“If the pulse breaks, the world will bleed.”

“The roots that bind will tear, and the sky will burn.”

“The stone remembers every hand that touched it. If you unmake it now… nothing will hold.”

“Stillness is safety. Balance is survival.”

 

The vision twists, he sees flashes of Sharn’s towers collapsing, oceans boiling, forests splitting along glowing fault lines of ley energy. The breath of something ancient stirs in the void beneath him, vast and patient.

 

“Stabilize the pulse, and the heart will sleep again.”

 

The words echo until they fade into his chest, and the light dies. When his eyes open, he’s back in the Anchor Vault, kneeling, trembling, faint blue light still tracing the veins of his arms.

 

Skid: “I saw what happens if we pull it free… everything breaks. The ley runs through the bones of the world. We keep it steady, or we all fall with it.”

 

The group must work together to calm the Anchor’s energy before it shatters.

 

After multiple successful ability checks, the group manages to stabilize the anchor.

 

The light steadies. The hum fades to a deep, even pulse. Dust drifts slowly through still air. The fractures seal into glowing veins that thrum quietly beneath the stone.

The leyline beneath Sharn grows calm and silent.

Skid’s ley mark glows faintly; he can sense nearby ley currents from now on.

 

The Dhakaani statues bow slightly as motes of light rise from their eyes.

 

“Balance restored.”

 

The group begins their ascent back up to the forward camp the Molrik clan established. They return the Molrik war banners. The Molrik clan shows their respects by awarding the party magical items and loot.


